[doc] Timezone and daylight saving time precisions (#34)
hove-io/ntfs-specification: daylight_saving.md

NTFS Timezones and Daylight saving
=================

## Handling time-zones

> The `network_timezone` field in file networks.txt sets the time zone for all `stop_times` of `trips` of the `network`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `network_timezone` field in file networks.txt sets the time zone for all `stop_times` of a `trip` in the `network`. 
```

(to avoid the `of ... of ...`)

> If a feed covers multiple time zones, a specific time zone information can be specified on a `stop_point` in the `stop_timezone` field. Set this optional field in file `stops.txt` (for stops with location_type = 0). If not set, the timezone of the network is used. Ensure that trip travel times remain accurate and consistent by providing departure and arrival times based on the `network_timezone` for stops that are out of that timezone.

Reviewer 2: I think the `stop_timezone` field is not used at all inside kraken/loki. 
We always use the `network_timezone` for all stop_times of a vehicle journey.

Note that allowing different timezone on each stop_time would make it harder to check if the stop_times are increasing along a trip.

Author: This chapter tries to describe the actual (kraken) way of dealing with TZ, and seems to be similar to what you are saying. Maybe the text is not clear enough?

> If a feed covers multiple time zones, a specific time zone information can be specified on a `stop_point` outside the `network_timezone` in the `stop_timezone` field. Set this optional field in file `stops.txt` (for stops with location_type = 0). If not set, the timezone of the network is used. Ensure that trip travel times remain accurate and consistent by providing departure and arrival times based on the `network_timezone` for stops that are out of that timezone.

Reviewer: I'm not sure `outside the 'network_timezone'` is useful since you already use _specified_ so we understand it's gonna be more specific. You can probably remove it.

Author: you're right, it is again said later with `If not set, the timezone of the network is used`. I'm removing it

Navitia presents time for departure and arrival times in the local time zone of each stop. \
Warnings: 
- Time in `stop_times.txt` should always increase along a trip. 

> - NTFS uses the local timezone at noon of the travel day of the trip. This is the implementation of the constraint specified on the (GTFS Time data format)[http://gtfs.org/schedule/reference/#field-types]:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- NTFS uses the local timezone at noon of the travel day of the trip, following the same rule as (GTFS Time data format)[http://gtfs.org/schedule/reference/#field-types]:
```

> > Time in the HH:MM:SS format (H:MM:SS is also accepted). The time is measured from "noon minus 12h" of the service day (effectively midnight except for days on which daylight savings time changes occur). For times occurring after midnight, enter the time as a value greater than 24:00:00 in HH:MM:SS local time for the day on which the trip schedule begins. \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Time in the HH:MM:SS format (HH:MM:SS is also accepted). The time is measured from "noon minus 12h" of the service day (effectively midnight except for days on which daylight savings time changes occur). For times occurring after midnight, enter the time as a value greater than 24:00:00 in HH:MM:SS local time for the day on which the trip schedule begins. \
```

Author: The parenthesis states you can ommit one of the H (and it's a copy/paste of the gtfs.org site). I'm not changing this one.

Reviewer: Oops :sweat_smile: my bad indeed. Sorry!

Example: 14:30:00 for 2:30PM or 25:35:00 for 1:35AM on the next day.

> 

Reviewer 2: I think it would be great to have a documented upper bound
```suggestion
The maximum accepted value is 48:00:00
```

Author: If I remember correctly, there are some trains that runs more than 2 days. Is  limit of 48:00 a technical limit ?

## Daylight Saving Time
Some trips may operate during the switch from or to Daylight Saving time and then continue to operate as normal. The NTFS format uses the same way of dealing with daylight saving than [the GTFS does](https://support.google.com/transitpartners/answer/7074707).

> It is strongly recommended to explicitly define trips operating across time changes (not using multiple day calendar).

Reviewer: Do you mean, to **NOT** define trips across time changes?

Author: I'm trying to say that dealing with time changes can be done, but with trips associated with only one active day in the associated calendar. Do you have a better way of explaining  this?

Reviewer: I think I understand now (I was not when I did my previous comment). I'll try some ideas below, but indeed, not an easy recommendation to convey.

> It is recommended to define a trip operating across a time change, on a single service day (see `calendar.txt`).

> It is recommended to avoid services on multiple days (see `calendar.txt`) for trips that cross time changes.

Note that I removed the word `strongly` because it's already a recommendation, `strongly` only make it subjective instead of objective.

Also note that I added a mention of `calendar.txt` because this sentence either contains calendar day, or service day, but both can be understood as jargon... [or not](https://www.wikiwand.com/en/Calendar_day). Mentioning `calendar.txt` (which itself has a `service_id`) makes it obvious we're using the jargon here, not just any ~calendar day~ day of the week.

Author: Thanks for the proposal. I've chosen the 2nd one. Should be good now.

> ### First modelization (recommanded)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### First modelization (recommended)
```

> Model the trip using the previous day as the point of reference in stop_times.txt. The departure stop_time may exceed 24h to indicate the time on the next day (for example 25:30 to indicate 01:30 before the changing time).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Model the trip using the previous day as the point of reference in `stop_times.txt`. The departure stop_time may exceed 24h to indicate the time on the next day (for example 25:30 to indicate 01:30 before the changing time).
```

### Displayed times

When displaying a time in a journey or at a specific stop, Navitia gives the local time at the stop using its specified time-zone AND the Daylight Saving Time.

**Example with the clock switching forward**

A bus starts on October 2 at 1:50 AM the night the switch happens (for example, 2 AM changes to 3 AM). 

stop_sequence | Departure_times (1st model) | Departure_times (2nd model) | displayed departure time in Navitia
--- | --- | --- | ---
1 | 25:50:00 (October 1) | 02:50:00 (October 2) | 01:50 AM (October 2)
2 | 26:10:00 (October 1) | 03:10:00 (October 2) | 03:10 AM (October 2) *
3 | 26:50:00 (October 1) | 03:50:00 (October 2) | 03:50 AM (October 2)
4 | 27:30:00 (October 1) | 04:30:00 (October 2) | 04:30 AM (October 2)

_\* Time starting here use the new time display_

**Example with the clock switching backward**

A bus starts on October 2 at 1:50 AM the night the switch happens (for example, 3 AM changes to 2 AM). The trip is modeled as belonging to the previous day (October 1):

stop_sequence | Departure_times (1st model) | Departure_times (2nd model) | displayed departure time in Navitia
--- | --- | --- | ---

> 1 | 25:50:00 (October 1) | 00:50:00 (October 2) | 01:50 AM (October 2)
> 2 | 26:10:00 (October 1) | 01:10:00 (October 2) | 02:10 AM (October 2) 
> 3 | 26:50:00 (October 1) | 01:50:00 (October 2) | 01:50 AM (October 2) *
> 4 | 27:30:00 (October 1) | 02:30:00 (October 2) | 02:30 AM (October 2)

Reviewer: Are you sure it should not be this instead?

```suggestion
1 | 25:50:00 (October 1) | 00:50:00 (October 2) | 01:50 AM (October 2)
2 | 26:10:00 (October 1) | 01:10:00 (October 2) | 02:10 AM (October 2) 
3 | 26:50:00 (October 1) | 01:50:00 (October 2) | 02:50 AM (October 2)
4 | 27:30:00 (October 1) | 02:30:00 (October 2) | 02:30 AM (October 2) *
```

It feels weird that going from 26:10 to 26:50 (so it does not cross a new hour) that the final displayed value goes from 02:10 then 01:50?

Author: You are right, I'll fix it (trying to keep consistency with both examples...)
